.\"
.\" $Id: ca68.1,v 1.2 2004/09/04 02:35:56 teshields Exp $
.
.Dd 19th June 2002
.Os "Debian GNU/Linux" 3.0
.Dt CA68 1
.
.
.Sh NAME
.
.Nm ca68
.Nd compile an Algol 68 module
.
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.
.Nm
.Op Fl c
.Op Fl d Ar mdir
.Op Fl g
.Op Fl h | Fl \-help
.Op Fl I Ar inc-dir
.Op Fl L Ar link-dir
.Op Fl l Ar lib
.Op Fl M Ar lib-dir
.Op Fl m Ar mod-lib
.Op Fl s Ar staredit
.Op Fl u Ar uname
.Op Fl w Ar web68-dirs
.Ar module-path Ns Op \&.a68 Ns | Ns \&.w68
.
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.
.Nm
will convert a source module written in Algol 68 or Web 68 into an
object module. If it is a program,
.Nm
will link it to form a binary program in the directory specified by
.Ar module-path .
Otherwise, it will store the object module in a static library
specified in a
.Fl m
argument which should be preceded by a
.Fl M
argument giving its directory. The module can include debugging
symbols.
.Nm
is intended to replace the module manager
.Ql mm
usually supplied with the
.Xr a68toc 1
translator, and the
.Xr make 1
command.
.
.Pp
.Nm
will run
.Xr tang 1
if the file extension is
.Pa .w68 .
If the filename has no extension,
.Ql .a68
is presumed.
.
.
.Sh OPTIONS
.
.
The following options are available:-
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.
.
.It Fl c
Remove run-time checks from the compiled program (not recommended).
.
.
.It Fl d Ar mdir
Add
.Ar mdir
to the list of directories containing \&.m files produced by
.Xr a68toc 1
for precompiled modules. The default value is
.Bl -tag -width 10n -offset indent
.It Pa /usr/share/algol68/ .
.El
.Lp
The last directory added will be searched first. This option may be
repeated.
.
.
.It Fl g
Add debugging symbols to your program. It will also run
.Xr tang 1
in debugging mode.
.
.
.It Fl h | Fl \-help
Displays a terse help message together with the defaults of various
parameters.
.
.
.It Fl I Ar inc-dir
Add
.Ar inc-dir
to the list of directories which
.Xr gcc 1
should search for included C files. The default value is
.Bl -tag -width 10n -offset indent
.It Li -I /usr/include/algol68 -I /usr/include
.El
.Lp
This option may be repeated.
.
.It Fl L Ar link-dir
Adds
.Ar link-dir
to the list of libraries which
.Xr gcc 1
will search for libraries for linking. It should be followed by
.Fl l Ar link-lib
parameters indicating the libraries to be searched. The default is
.Bl -tag -width 10n -offset indent
.It Li -L /usr/lib -L ${HOME}/lib
.El
.Lp
This option may be repeated.
.
.It Fl l Ar lib
Adds
.Ar lib
to the list of libraries which
.Xr gcc 1
will search for precompiled routines for linking. It should be preceded by
a
.Fl L Ar link-dir
option giving the directory to search for the library unless it can
be found in the list of libraries already defined (or by default).
The following libraries are searched last in the linking process:-
.Bl -tag -width 10n -offset indent
.It Li -la68s -la68 -lm -lc
.El
.Lp
This option may be repeated.
.
.It Fl M Ar lib-dir
Specifies the directory which contains static libraries of
pre-compiled modules.
.Nm
presumes that the .m file produced by
.Xr a68toc 1
from a declarations module will be moved to the sub-directory
.Ql m
in the directory specified by this parameter.
.
.
.It Fl m Ar mod-lib
Specifies a static library of pre-compiled modules. When compiling a
declarations module, If the library does not exist, it will be
created. This option may be repeated.
.
.
.It Fl s Ar staredit
Specifies the staredit characters to use for this compilation. The
default value is taken from the
.Ev A68_STAREDIT
environment string.
.
.
.It Fl u Ar uname
Specifies the
.Ar uname
command for
.Xr a68toc 1 .
The default is
.Ql seedfile .
See
.Xr a68toc 1
for further details.
.
.
.It Fl w Ar web68-dirs
Specifies a colon-separated list of directories to be added to the
list of directories in which
.Xr tang 1
should look for Web 68 include files. The default value is
.Bl -tag -width 10n -offset indent
.It Pa /usr/include/algol68
.El
.
.El
.
.Sh FILES
.
None.
.
.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.
.
.It Ev A68_STAREDIT
Should contain any number of single digits or upper-case letters. The
staredit mechanism works as follows:
.
.
.Bl -tag -width Ds -offset indent
.It Ao Ns Ar cmd Ns Ac Ao Ns Ar tag Ns Ac
A line subject to the the staredit mechanism should start with a
single-character command
.Ao Ns Ar cmd Ns Ac
which can be
.Ql \&*
or
.Ql \&%
followed by a single-character
.Ao Ns Ar tag Ns Ac
which can be a digit or an upper-case letter.
.
.
.It \&* Ar tag
If
.Ao Ns Ar tag Ns Ac
appears in the
.Em staredit
option, include this line. If
.Ao Ns Ar tag Ns Ac
does not appear in the
.Em staredit
option, exclude this line.
.
.
.It \&% Ar tag
If
.Ar tag
appears in the
.Em staredit
option, exclude this line. If
.Ar tag
does not appear in the
.Em staredit
option, include this line.
.El
.
.El
.
.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.
.It Ar "ca68 prog"
This command will translate the source
.Ar prog.a68
into C, compile it with
.Xr gcc 1
and then link it to produce the executable
.Pa prog
in the current directory. The object file
.Li prog.o
will be linked with the standard Algol 68 libraries.
.
.
.It Ar "ca68 -d ~/lib/m -L /usr/X11R6/lib -l forms -l flimage -l X11 -w . prog.w68"
This command will run
.Xr tangle68 1 ,
then
.Xr a68toc 1 ,
then
.Xr gcc 1
and will then link the resulting
.Pa prog.o
file with the Xforms libraries. Included Web 68 files will be searched for in the
current working directory and directory
.Pa ~/lib/m
will be searched for .m files of precompiled modules.
.
.
.It Ar "ca68 -d . -M ~/lib -m liba68prel.a decs.a68"
The declaration module
.Ar decs.a68
will be translated to C, compiled to object form and then stored in
.Pa liba68prel.a
in directory
.Pa ~/lib .
The .m file will be stored in
.Pa ~/lib/m .
\&.m files from precompiled modules will be looked for in the current
working directory.
.
.El
.
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr a68toc 1 ,
.Xr gcc 1 ,
.Xr tang 1 .
.
.
.Sh COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2002 Phoenix Engineering and available under the GNU
Public Licence version 2 or any later version.
.
.
.Sh AUTHOR
Sian Leitch
